
# Table of Contents

1.  [Get the command line tools](#orgbcb5853)
2.  [Get VS Code](#org37e72ae)
3.  [Install the C/C++ extensions](#orga1d4d40)
4.  [Using VS Code](#org3b37652)
5.  [Debugger set-up](#orgab6fb9e)

Follow the instructions at [this link](https://www.cs.auckland.ac.nz/~paul/C/Mac/), or:


<a id="orgbcb5853"></a>

# Get the command line tools

-   Open the Terminal (in Applications/Utilities, or cmd + space and search for "terminal")
-   Type `gcc` and hit enter.
-   If you have a C compiler installed, you will see some text, otherwise it will ask you to install *Command line tools*; say "yes".


<a id="org37e72ae"></a>

# Get VS Code

-   Download VS Code from <https://code.visualstudio.com/download>.
-   Click the button that says "Mac" (or "Universial" for a .zip file).
-   When the file downloads, unzip if necessary, and then move "Visual Studio Code" from "Downloads" to your "Applications" folder.


<a id="orga1d4d40"></a>

# Install the C/C++ extensions

-   Open VS Code
-   Go to the extensions page by clicking the icon on the left side menu.
-   Search for "C/C++" and install the "C/C++ Extension Pack"


<a id="org3b37652"></a>

# Using VS Code

-   Inside VS Code, use the "Open Folder" option under "File" to open a folder (e.g. a folder for lab or tutorial)
-   Open a new terminal (first option under "Terminal" in the menu bar).
-   The prompt should show that you are in the folder you opened.
-   Type `ls` in the terminal and hit enter. You should see your files. If not, use the [command line tips](<https://github.com/anewgithubname/MATH10017-2022/blob/main/commandline_tips/tips.md>) to navigate to the right folder (or "directory").
-   You can now compile with `gcc`: `gcc your_file_name.c -o output_file_name.out`
-   Run your code with `./output_file_name.out`
-   **IMPORTANT** on Mac and linux, use `.out` instead of `.exe`.


<a id="orgab6fb9e"></a>

# Debugger set-up

When you use "Run with debugging", VS Code will create a .vscode folder that contains a file called "tasks.json".

Copy the following into `tasks.json` (over-writing anything already written there):

    {
        "tasks": [
    	{
    	    "type": "cppbuild",
    	    "label": "C/C++: gcc build active file",
    	    "command": "/usr/bin/gcc",
    	    "args": [
    		"-fdiagnostics-color=always",
    		"-g",
    		"${file}",
    		"-o",
    		"${fileDirname}/${fileBasenameNoExtension}"
    	    ],
    	    "options": {
    		"cwd": "${fileDirname}"
    	    },
    	    "presentation": {
    		"echo": true,
    		"reveal": "silent",
    		"focus": false,
    		"panel": "shared",
    		"showReuseMessage": true,
    		"clear": false
    	    },
    	    "problemMatcher": [
    		"$gcc"
    	    ],
    	    "group": {
    		"kind": "build",
    		"isDefault": true
    	    },
    	    "detail": "Task generated by Debugger."
    	}
        ],
        "version": "2.0.0"
    }

In the debug menu, choose the option to create `launch.json` and copy the following into it (overwriting anything already in the file):

    {
        // Use IntelliSense to learn about possible attributes.
        // Hover to view descriptions of existing attributes.
        // For more information, visit: https://go.microsoft.com/fwlink/?linkid=830387
        "version": "0.2.0",
        "configurations": [
    
    	{
    	    "name": "Run and debug",
    	    "type": "cppdbg",
    	    "request": "launch",
    	    "program": "${fileDirname}/${fileBasenameNoExtension}",
    	    "args": [],
    	    "stopAtEntry": false,
    	    "cwd": "${fileDirname}",
    	    "environment": [],
    	    "externalConsole": false,
    	    "MIMode": "lldb",
    	    "preLaunchTask": "C/C++: gcc build active file"
    	}
    
        ]
    }

Note: on Mac, output will only be shown in the debug console, not in the terminal, like on Windows.
